give people a chat box that can do
unlimited power and they're like tell me
a dad joke. In the technology world, the
underutilized capabilities are so big.
It's almost trit now to say the models
are far ahead of the value they're
delivering.
>> The whole history of software from 1960
until 2022 was you would take a filing
cabinet and you turn it into a database.
The cool thing about everything that's
happening in AI land is that the filing
cabinet can do work.
>> The idea I would vibe code my own
workday and then run it is terrifying.
However, there is a great gain we are
seeing internally in extensibility of
software using things like V coding.
Everyone has been talking about the SAS
apocalypse. Some people call it the
catastrophe. Why is there too much fear
about this?
>> As I've said, not every SAS company is
going to thrive through the next decade.
We're not here to defend all of
software.
The whole history of software from 1960
until 2022 was you would take a filing
cabinet and you turn it into a database.
So the first example of this is a
company called Saber Systems which was
started in 1960 by IBM and American
Airlines because it took the reservation
system which literally was stored in
like vaults of filing cabinets manned or
womaned by by lots of lots of
secretaries um in like the 1950s and
1940s. Airlines have been around for a
long time and then it put them in a in
an early SQL database um or an early
database back when you know 10 megaby
hard drive probably cost like hund00
million um and then that's what happened
with electronic health records and the
first one was called MOPS it was built
by Mass General Hospital were the first
you know Sei systems predating
Salesforce or actually the first CRM was
called axe systems in 1987 so basically
every single filing cabinet became a
database and there were benefits to that
but it didn't actually make the world
that much more efficient. man because
whereas before you would have a a human
go fetch you the HR file for Eric like
oh go to the HR filing cabinet get me
that file now it's in workday but now
you have to have a CISO to make sure
that your workday doesn't get hacked you
need to have IT people to provision
accounts in your SSO to to workday so
did the world get that much more
efficient it did if you have multiple
offices now people can collaborate you
could do complex joins on a database
much much harder to do that on pieces of
paper but that was kind of software from
1960 to 2022 because the the the filing
cabinet couldn't think for itself. Um,
and now this is like the cool thing
about everything that's happening uh in
in AI land is that you know the filing
cabinet can do work. like QuickBooks can
actually accomplish a task by itself
versus just relying on a human to
retrieve the file from QuickBooks in the
same way that the human in 1500 would
retrieve a file from you know ye old
filing cabinet um from the you know ye
old accounting department. So it's it's
interesting.
>> It's actually a great segue into of
course what is everyone talking about
right now the or has been talking about
the SAS apocalypse. Some people call it
the catastrophe of you know obviously
what's happening in the in the public
markets. Um and a lot of people have you
know different perspectives of how you
know significant it is or or or what it
means. I want to hear from both of you
how you interpret what what what's been
going on and and and and more
importantly you know what it means or
how we should make sense of it. You know
why is there too much fear about this or
how should we make sense of this? Look,
I think um
the world is trying to work out how to
rate or value software businesses in a
highly disruptive stage, right? And
everyone h has hot takes about what the
future's going to look like, right? And
depending on the takes, you get a
version of the future that's either
really good or really bad for all of
software, certain companies, certain
categories in software. It's a really
interesting thing. Um
there's no doubt in my mind that the
risk level has gone up. So if you think
about it from an investor mindset,
you're like this used to be a very
stable category. Now it's a more risky
category, hence I'm going to step away
and watch. And as I always say,
investors are trying to work out not
necessarily the DCF cash flow model of a
company for all profits of history.
They're really trying to work out what
are other investors going to do, right?
and they're actually betting on what
other people think that that other
people think they're going to do. And
right now that it sort of logically
makes sense. You have a interesting
world where no one can everyone has a
version of what future is likely to look
like and it seems likely to them. It's
pretty disconnected from the reality on
the ground. But the answer is always
what if AI can do that in two years or 3
years? What does that mean? And I think
it comes from a very static viewpoint,
right? like that people won't adapt. The
world won't change. It's like one thing
is going to change and everything else
is going to remain static. Um so you
have this interesting world at the
moment where businesses like ours are
doing very well, right? We've had three
great quarters in a row and everybody
says so and then you're like wait but
what's you know that's used to equate to
some value and it's our job to prove
that that's not the case for our
business, right? We're not here to
defend all of software obviously um but
for our business we feel very good about
the opportunities we have the data we
keep showing the results we keep showing
um and that doesn't mean I always say
this as well it doesn't mean that we
don't have to adapt it's this weird
world that like we are changing how we
work radically and quickly
as we always have as we've been doing
for a number of years some part of that
I think assumes that we won't be able to
change right there are strategic vectors
for Sure. But um and look, the reality
is, as I've said, not every SAS company
is going to thrive through the next
decade, right? Just like a bunch didn't
make it to the cloud, a bunch didn't
make it, you know, from, I don't know,
Windows to to the internet era or
whatever, whichever era you want to say,
no one is going to say, I think, that a
100red out of 100 SAS companies are
going to make it through um and be
thriving and growing on the other side.
Also, we we have this version that
software kind of dies. A lot of it just
ends up, you know, uh, as a as a as a
cash revenue stream.
I I don't
I can speak for us. This is the best
thing that's happened to our business,
right? We're in a knowledge world. We
have tools to play with that knowledge,
to act on that knowledge, to do all
sorts of other things to solve the jobs
our customers have always hired us for.
This logically is very good, but it's up
to us to execute that through that
through that transition, right? which I
think we're doing really well, but
again, we have to prove that to people
over time. The the patience part is hard
for markets.
>> Alex, how how about you? How do you
react to to what's what's been happening
or how do you make sense of what's going
>> uh well, I hope I hope I'm right in the
long run, which is all this stuff is
crazy. Um, I think I I I tweeted about
this a few weeks ago where my my kind of
cursory glance is that there were three
different types of SAS companies and the
public markets couldn't tell the
difference between the three.
And one is where seats are tied to
outcomes. So seat seats are being used
by people who use kind of going back to
the filing cabinet metaphor, right? Like
if I'm Zenesk, I'm using Zenesk and and
you know, they came up with a very
clever pricing model. Um, which by the
way, like maybe I can take a step back
before I even answer your question,
which is there's this great book by Dan
Arieli called Predictably Irrational.
And I used to give it to all my product
managers at my company. It's like study
this to figure out how we charge people
for stuff. Um because it turns out like
people like and the example that he
gives is like imagine you're locked out
of your your apartment. It's midnight.
You hire a locksmith comes one minute
later lets you in in 30 seconds says
it's 500 bucks. You're like 500 bucks?
What the f? Like you just did like 90
seconds of work. You leave him a
one-star Yelp review, you know, no tip,
you know, protest the charge on your
credit card. Now imagine parallel
universe light, you know, locksmith
comes um spends nine hours trying to let
you in. um goes back to his office to
get more tools, finally by like, you
know, 9:30 in the morning, finally lets
you into your apartment. You're so
grateful that he spent nine and a half
hours helping you get into your
apartment that you give him a $200 tip,
leave him a fivestar rating on Yelp.
This is this is an example that he gives
in the book. And it basically means
humans are kind of capable and willing
to pay for incompetence. Like it's like
a lot of pricing is about fairness. like
it feels fair that I give that guy more
money even though he's completely
incompetent than his counterpart who's
super competent where I'm so pissed that
he overcharged me and it doesn't make
any sense but like it feels fair and if
you think about how we got to SAS like
per seat per month like when you're
giving away in many cases it's like the
the additional cost of provisioning a
seat digitally is like close to zero not
for everything but for some things like
it just feels fair it's like oh you have
500 seats you pay more money than if you
have one seat even though It's kind of
the same thing going on in the
background. So the three types of SAS
companies that I think of, you know,
great great oversimplification here, but
category one is like you have seats, the
seats are being used to produce some
element of work, but now uhoh, like you
don't need the seats anymore to produce
the element of work. So like Zenesk
would be like patient one there where
it's like how many seats does a Zenesk
customer need today if they're using
Sierra Decagon or you know roll their
own? It's like potentially zero. So
Zendesk, we talk about the the present
value of future cash flows. It's like
they're imp peril because the per seat
pricing like if if Zenes said we're just
going to charge you per seat per month
for the current thing, you know, never
make a change to our code or our
pricing, that revenue stream is 100%
going to zero. On the other hand, it
could triple or quadruple because they
might just move to outcome based pricing
and ditch. I mean, it still has to be
subject to the laws of fairness and
predictable irrationality that we talked
about. But you know something like
Zenesk it could go up it could go down
but like the default path unless it
changes going to zero. On the complete
other side of that is you might have per
seat pricing because it feels fair but
the seats are not tied to an outcome. So
like workday has this great pricing
model where like oh you're GE you have
340,000 employees. Yeah I'm going to
charge you per employee per month. Why?
I don't know. It just feels fair. But
those employees that work at GE are not
using workday to produce an outcome. So
workday I think is fine. In fact, if
anything, and this kind of goes into
like what can you do with AI tools,
well, when you hire somebody at GE, they
need to do a reference check and make
sure that you worked at the three
companies that you claimed you worked
at. An HR person has to go look at the
file that's in Workday and go call those
three companies. Workday can call those
three companies. Like an AI tool can do
that, but only if you're the system of
record. So, you know, something like
Workday or like in it, it's down 45% in
the first like, you know, it's February
26th or 27th today, down 45%. Nobody's
going to get rid of QuickBooks. Um, so,
you know, these are the two tent poles
is like, you know, per like seats are
charged per month or per whatever and
it's tied to some kind of work and then
seats just happen to be a clever pricing
trick, but it's not tried tied to work.
And then there are things that are in
the middle like Adobe like yeah it's
maybe you need more seats maybe you need
fewer seats but it's not as stark as the
Zenesk example nor the workday example
and then against that you have this kind
of undercurrent of oh I'm going to v
code everything which I think is just
preposterous having been a software
developer for a very very long time
because uh the the person that I like to
cite as my counter example here is my my
second favorite economist um David
Ricardo um and in 1817 uh has been
around for a He he lived a long time
ago. But it's like this is where the
theory of comparative advantage comes
from. It's like you could also grow your
own food. You could weld your own
aluminum. But even those are bad
examples because it's very simple to
grow food or weld aluminum. It's just I
have a comparative advantage filming
podcast with you. I could do that too,
but I can earn more doing this even
though I might be more productive than
the plumber, but I should still do the
podcast. that's actually less important
than the what I like to call like all
the edge cases that lie beneath, right?
So like I could theoretically vibe code
me some workday, but what happens in
Indiana if the person leaves and they're
on maternity leave like all these edge
cases where it's just you don't know
about them unless you've encountered
them in the wild. So uh a lot of
software is just a set of deterministic
rules that have been learned from like
in many cases decades of experience and
the rules are not exposed. The rules are
they're kind of embedded and you can't
just replicate them. You replicate them
through experience. So I think it's like
again there are kind of three types of
SAS in my oversimplistic view of the
world and then there is this like uh oh
like it's no like the IP is worthless
because everybody's going to vibe code
their own thing and I think on maybe for
certain subcategories if it's a very
simple task with no edge cases or maybe
you don't need all the edge cases that
have been built in I think software is
going to do great because it's the true
systems of record that have sticky
software that people rely on that have
all of these embedded edge cases is
they're going to start adding AI uh
where AI does the work right it's like
you know workday will say do you want us
to do a background check into it will
say do you want us to go collect on your
outstanding accounts receivable you
don't have to go hire humans to do that
you go hire your software to do these
tasks that is starting to happen but
when that does happen the present value
of future cash flow like that's going to
go up a lot like the the the future c
like the the present cash flows are
going to go up a lot and I I just it's
it's astonishing to me that a lot of
public market investors, they can't tell
the difference between these different
buckets and they're not giving any kind
like they're very excited about AI, but
how do you deploy the AI? You have to
deploy the AI through software that's a
system of record. I think it's a
fascinating time for everyone getting to
first principles of what a business
really does. So like you have all these
these views, right? I I personally hate
the system of record thing because it
sounds like, oh, a system of record is
just like a database sitting there. It's
very static. I put stuff into it and I
pull it out and that's it. And that
views a business as a set of filing
cabinets in a very sort of industrial
era kind of world. Right now that was
very different than the pre-industrial
era of a business. So totally it had a a
value. And I get why we have the term
system of record but it feels a little
bit like we why we have a floppy disc
icon as the save button, right? Where my
kids like what's that? And I'm like
that's a disc. And they're like what is
that? And I'm like oh you've never
actually physically seen a disc but you
still have this icon. You know what the
save button does. And the reason it's
questioning this is to me businesses are
a set of processes. They're not a system
of record. Like these are all
process-based systems, right? Everything
Alex has just said is totally true, but
there are processes like reference
checking or other things. And your
ability to coordinate a set of processes
to happen as cheaply and efficiently and
quickly as possible is actually in a
knowledge business, not an industrial
era business, but a knowledge era
business, your entire business. Right? I
have 10,000 plus people who walk into
buildings every day and bring their
brains and walk out and take their
brains with them and that's it. I don't
have any atoms. I don't have any bits. I
don't stamp any steel. I don't even have
any filing cabinets, I don't think.
Right. And I am all about coordinating
the sets of processes, which I think
most modern businesses probably are.
Right. When you get to how does that
relate to Alex's commentary? I think
it's totally true. We have different
types of processes within a business.
There are what I like to call input
constrained and output constrained
processes. The customer service example
with Zenesk, that's input constraint.
Your customers ask a certain amount of
questions. How quickly you process those
is about your efficiency, cost, speed,
quality of running that queue. If you do
it 10 times as fast, you don't get 10
times as many questions, right? Like
they that you have so many customers,
there's a there's a relationship or a
ratio. For every customer, they ask five
questions. How can I make them ask less
questions or process questions quicker?
Right? There's actually a lot in a
business that is an input constrained
kind of a process. Uh I always use our
legal team as an example, right? Their
job is not to generate legal work. It is
to answer it. So how many leases do we
have? How many NDAs? How many contracts?
It's like a fixed total set. And for
that work, I'm trying to do it as
efficiently as possible. And you have
one entire vector for that set of
processes. But then I have kind of
output constrained work. If I think
about anything creative, marketing, I
would argue software development,
technology, where I can theoretically do
an unlimited amount of tasks, right? I'm
constrained by my creativity if you like
and how many things I can think of to
do, how much value I can deliver for my
customers.
Those are actually where I'll take the
efficiency gain and probably do more
output rather than limit input within
the bounds of making my company
profitable and all these sorts of
things. Um the challenge is to look at a
business and try to make this analysis
from the outside because all of your
input constrained processes and output
constrained processes actually work
together to make a business and they all
have to kind of liaz in all these
interesting ways and that's why you see
weird pieces of software that are just
coordinating quote unquote humans are
running processes and what you're saying
about Indiana is totally true because
some of those processes have outside
rules. We call them laws, governance,
compliance that I have to do. In
Indiana, I have to do a certain thing
for employees. So, the processes are
both how I want my business to run and
how it has to run. And the business is
really just a collection of all these
processes put together. Like, I'm just
saying it's it's a totally different
view from the sort of we have a system
of record and a system of action or
whatever. And I'm like, that's not how I
think most businesses actually run, but
it's often how we think about it. So,
>> I totally I think that's a great
framing. Um, like despite the fact that
I love I love into it, it's like
Turboax. Well, like the tax code is
published, right? You can download all
of these rules. It's highly
deterministic and then your files are in
your your like messy downloads folder
and it's like make those two happen. In
that case, it's like one of these
bizarre situations where everything is
actually transparent in terms of the
processes. I think it's actually a quite
rare situation where the edge cases are
published in like maybe one place or
maybe 50 places, but it's like, oh, you
just there are 50 states in the United
States of America. Each one has its own
tax code. There's the federal tax
system. They have a tax code. Go
download that stuff and make it work.
And there probably are still are edge
cases and processes that you learn
versus like the real world normally
isn't as neat as that. It's just like
you learn by doing. And a business has
value. I mean there are a lot of
businesses where theoretically I mean
this is where it's like you would say
like all the assets leave every night
because they go down the elevator and
they go home like that's that's like
more knowledge economy type things but
actually these businesses do have value
like you know does McKenzie have value
outside of all of the employees that
work there because that's a knowledge
economy business where they produce
outcomes and you know it's tied to labor
it's not like a product but still like
they're they're probably they probably
have some top secret handbook that they
use around how do they hire people how
do they fire people how do they produce
uh outcomes for clients and so on and so
forth. I haven't seen it and that's
actually great that I haven't seen it
because I can't replicate it and it's
probably been built over a hundred
years. Um and like you know what is it
that non-digital non-software products
do? What is their product? Their product
is the is the accumulated knowledge from
potentially centuries or decades. I mean
I I love going to Japan and you see like
oh this noodle store has been around
since like 1587 and it's like yeah
there's probably something going on
there. It's like this accumulated set of
uh kind of culture and knowledge and and
knowhow besides, you know, here's the
recipe list for for making noodles.
Maybe a bad example because making
noodles is a little bit easier. Probably
not as many edge cases. I don't know.
Maybe there are edge cases. Like what
happens if you're if you run out of
flour? What do you do? What how did the
noodle shop survive the great flower
shortage of 1623? you know, they they
they probably did something and that's
like accumulated in this like secret
book of knowhow as opposed to I'm just
going to replicate something where all
of the rules are published to the public
>> or maybe
like in it. Again, this is where I think
it's so fascinating. It forces us to
rethink our businesses, right? Is intu
filling out the tax code for you or does
intuit know the tax code as well as
anyone else can? What they're helping is
you to take your life data, your
understanding, your they're asking you
the right questions into it's almost
more like a McKenzie. It can be
considered that way. It's their process
and their special ability is how to ask
you the right questions to fill out the
tax code rather than the filling out of
the tax code.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And all these businesses are
having to look at maybe I have 50
processes internally that I think are my
secret source and unique. Maybe only 20
of them are, but now I have to really
consider which of those processes are
actually unique and which which are not
because we haven't had to think about it
in that in that manner before.
>> I think it's also kind of a question of
how like there's this Goldilock zone
probably of like is it worth doing
yourself versus not like if you take
this kind of like third not third rail
but kind of this independent variable of
should I now claude code myself cla code
myself some X. Well, if it's like 99% of
my cost and like my business is going to
fail because this evil company is
overcharging me for software, it might
make sense. If it's like a dollar a
year, it probably doesn't make sense.
And then not all systems of record are
the same. So like, you know, I kind of
think of a system of record as like the
atomic unit of something for a business.
Like it could be uh calendars are a
system of record for time. Um or I don't
know, ERP is a system of record for
inventory. like you have all these
different systems of record, but um like
the the example that I was giving
somebody is if I have an office in Miami
that I don't go to very often and
there's a system of record for
conference rooms. There is a system of
record for conference rooms. It's like
Google calendar. Like am I willing to
change that system of record? Yeah,
because it's like my Miami office, they
only go once a year. Like who cares? Um
versus like this is something that
touches my revenue. It's not that
expensive. Um, am I really going to grow
my own food for something where I mean
actually this is the cool thing about
like farming, right? If you kind of take
that metaphor, it's actually a lot
cheaper to go to a restaurant. If I just
want like one hamburger versus like get
myself a cow and feed the cow and wait,
it's just a lot of food is actually
cheaper if you consume it in a
restaurant because of comparative
advantage and economies of scale. So
there probably are systems of record
where it's like there's some where
outside of any of the factors that we're
talking about, they're more susceptible
just because they overpriced or they're
just not as valuable in terms of what it
is that they're storing and keeping
records for. I mean like Carta keeps
track of cap tables for a lot of
companies. How often do you access your
cap table? Not very often, but it's
super valuable. You can't f that up,
right? Like it's I'd probably rather use
Carter for that than like and they only
they don't charge me that much money.
like sure I'll use Carta. Um, and it's
not it's not like a daily use kind of
product. So, it's not even like that
dimension.
>> I think the vibe coding thing is so
fascinating to me because yeah, so
someone in software like oh people are
just going to vibe code all these
replacements to tools. I'm like the idea
I would vibe code my own workday and
then run it is terrifying like have some
really smart engineers. Firstly, I have
other stuff for them to do. Secondly,
I'm like wait I feel like that has way
more downside than upside for me.
However, and so that's the sort of
replacement theory.
There is a great gain we are seeing
internally in extensibility of software
using things like VI coding. So most of
these applications are highly
configurable, customizable, you know, in
our case all the way through to true
extensibility. You can write pieces of
software, apps that run on top of our
platform that have all sorts of
different areas, and lots of customers
do, but those customers need to put a
technology team on doing that job. Their
ability to quote unquote vibe code
extensions, customizations, very
tailored applications to their very
specific use case of something. I want
an app for the Miami team to do
conference room booking and Miami has
some weird HR policy. So that app needs
to look at workday and this and that.
It's used by 20 people. I probably
wouldn't have been able to afford to put
the IT team internally on building that
because the bill would have been too
big. But now maybe I can build that,
right? But that uses workday's data and
rules around the world underneath. But
it it just gives me a very custom
interface for I don't know the person on
the front desk in Miami to do something
very specific to what they need. That is
super powerful, but it's not a
replacement for work. Poor workday. I
feel like Anneil is like
the the butt of a lot of these
conceptual examples. That's really
powerful, right? That actually makes
>> workday stickier in the enterprise and
more valuable because you can build all
these applications on top, which is the
power of AI and vibe coding and
creativity to make it more tailored for
what I need. But we're going to have to
be really careful about these sort of
layers of stability and rules and
process versus customization, right? And
you could argue, I don't know, open
cllor and stuff is an example of
building very personal apps just for me.
Most of those people aren't software
developers. They're building apps that
work just for them on top of their Gmail
or something else, right? But it still
uses Gmail as a Rails. They still go to
Gmail to read their email and do their
email, but they build some specific
thing for themselves to solve a problem
they have and probably only they have. A
couple of them maybe turn into
companies. Most of them are just solving
some stuff that they needed themselves.
That's it. And that's great. That's
really powerful.
>> That's why I'm curious about um maybe
I'd call it my bucket too of this
pricing fairness where the back end is
not the front end. So if you think of
Salesforce, they charge for licenses.
Like I think we have 600 people at our
firm. We might have 600 Salesforce
licenses. I'd never logged into
Salesforce,
but I bet we pay for me. But I I use the
output of it sometimes because it
actually is the system of record. Not to
overuse that term, but it stores like
all of our relationships, but I am like
part of a table in a relational database
of it's like, you know, I'm user ID
number 422 here and then whenever I meet
with a company, like, oh well, like user
ID 422 is matched in this other
database, but we really just want to pay
for a database. So, like in a world
where the front end is not the back end.
I mean, that's that's the thing. It's
like for workday, I kind of think
they've come up with a very clever
pricing trick. Um, trick trick
undersells it. I mean, I think it's a
it's a it's a powerful pricing paradigm
that feels fair. It's like the more
employees that you have. And why is that
fair? Because GE has more profits than a
10 person company. G is going to pay
more for this thing. It's still a drop
in the bucket. It's totally within the
Goldilock zone of pricing. And I don't
think anybody's going to vodka that.
They're going to add all this AI
revenue, but most importantly, their
pricing feels fair. Whereas for these
things where it's like the front end is
somewhat divorced from the back end.
that that that one is I I I don't know
what's the fair what's the fair format
for pricing like what will happen to
software pricing and and obviously like
if nobody's going to vibe code their own
thing and there's not going to be any
competition then pricing will stay
unchanged but you can imagine a world
where people are building things on top
to read from the database right because
I mean a system of record has a database
represent that that's like the the
abstraction layer beneath everything
will the pricing will there be any
pricing pressure on on any of these
categories
And I for me I think it's like if the
front end is not the back end there's
more susceptibility than if they're like
very very tightly tw like intertwined
like QuickBooks is used by small
businesses they don't have seats it's
like the owner of the business just logs
into QuickBooks. Um so the front end
kind of is the back end versus you know
Salesforce where you can imagine like
nobody gets rid of Salesforce but maybe
they have fewer seats because they need
fewer frontends but they really still
need the back end desperately. they're
not going to go, you know, they're not
going to eliminate or do anything with
the back end.
>> It depends on always like I I think your
fairness and optics in pricing are
really really important. People
understanding what they pay for and feel
like what they pay for is
uh
relates to their usage in some broad
way. Right? I I would say that a 10,000
person company paying for workday,
the 20,000 person company probably plays
twice as much plus some discount because
they're buying more because they're
generally have twice as much complexity
of stuff and they see that as fair.
That's what you mean by like it seems
reasonable that I would pay by employee
for my HR system. Um I think the
question with a lot of these things is
you know what what processes when we
talk about front end and back end as an
example it's not a database it's a
database plus a set of processes we used
to call it business logic when I was
growing up that those business logics
are not irrelevant so in the world of
why does a business have them because it
runs as a collection of processes and
they want standardization of process to
some level right so that two teams work
the same way so someone can manage them,
understand them, track output. You know,
I don't know if I have a bunch of car
factories, I want to track the total
amount of cars in and out consistently
across them. um the business logic where
it gets baked in is somewhat where the
value is because you may need and again
maybe A16Z is not a great uh example of
a Salesforce customer right that that
actually has a huge amount of sales
going on in terms of traditionally um
the processes you bake into that for
your sales teams are totally valuable to
you and you would think that's a fair
way to pay the question is your sales
adjacent teams, the sort of collaborator
rather than the core user. How much do
they need those processes and how much
do they not? So, I don't know. I assume
Salesforce Sales Cloud I guess we're
talking about SalesCloud has an MCP
server. That MCP server doesn't go to
the database. It probably involves your
processes and the rules on the way
through. So, the question is someone
sells adjacent, I don't know, they're in
marketing or they're in customer success
or something like this. if they need
those processes and governance and
controls and rules and you know hey we
only do X for customers in Japan we do Y
for customers in this area that sort of
stuff even their MCP server is going to
need an account whether the customer
thinks that's fair that's a different
question right it's just the challenge
of like how does that get priced I'd
tell you because we get this all the
time talking about consumption based
pricing usage based pricing outcome
based pricing there are a lot of
categories where that makes sense
I definitely do not believe that it will
be the majority priority pricing manner
for all software or all SASbased
software because when you talk to
customers they hate it. They really hate
it where asterisk it is not related to
the value they consider that they put
in. So I have usage based pricing for
Splunk. If I send them twice as many
logs I pay more money. I get it. But the
logging is up to me, right? I can log
more or I can log less. I can yell at
teams where I'm like, "Hey, how come
you're logging so much? This is
expensive." And you know, are you using
these logs? I can control the amount of
data I put in. Same with storage and S3
or something canonically. I put in a
gigabyte, I put in two gigabytes. Fine.
Right? The problem is those are
relatively transferable and controllable
by me as a customer. A lot of the
examples people give of either outcome
or consumption based pricing are not in
control by me as a customer and not
exchangeable. So the AI token world, the
AI credit world is really, really
difficult for customers because they're
like, I don't really understand what
this casino token you've given, casino
chip you've given me is, right? I can
take a gigabyte from AWS and go put it
in Azure and I know how much they're
going to charge me because the gigabyte
is kind of constant. When I have these
AI credits, I'm like, I I don't know if
your credits are the same as yours or
the same as yours. And by the way, you
keep adding features
which chew up my credits because my
users use them. And I'm like, wait, I I
don't know what they're doing with those
credits. Like, it's not the company
choosing to use them. It's the vendor
adding like features that make the
software better that seem to just
happen, right? I can 10x my customers
credit usage overnight by adding a whole
bunch of stuff like, "Hey, I built these
great summaries for you." And they're
like, "Wait, I didn't do that." So I
think the outcome based usage when you
talk to customers they want seats
probably because today they understand
it and secondly they've been burned by a
lot of this consumption base that the
bill just goes up massively and they're
like wait how do I control this
>> right will take some adjustment
>> it will be certainly present in a lot of
categories you know we have a bunch of
areas of our business at Alassian that
are you would argue consumption based
pricing or literally just consumption
based pricing but we try to stick to
areas where customers do twice as much
stuff they get twice as much value they
pay twice twice as much money and it's
in their control. A lot of these other
things aren't in their control. And the
last example of outcome based pricing is
those outcomes are also dynamic. So the
problem with say customer service where
I've saved you, you know, you used to
spend $20 on customer service. With our
tool, you'll only spend 10. That's a
great sales pitch in year one. In year
two, the customer goes, "But I only
spent 10. Now I want to spend five.
Otherwise, you didn't deliver any
value." And the vendor goes, "Well, if
you took me out, you'd be spending 20."
And it's like, wait, but I don't spend
20, I spend 10. So like my ability to
save you money each year is difficult
from an outcome basis, right? I'm
eliminating tasks.
>> I think also like from a sales
perspective, um I I've started two
payment companies and it was really I
used to this is why I know Workday is I
envied them and I would talk to my sales
team about workday because they know
from the outside in how much money they
make from GE. They're like, "Okay, GE
uses Peopleoft. They have 330,000
employees. Maybe we charge them $4 a
month, but probably $5 per employee per
month. This is how much money you make
from that account. And it's so it's so
much easier to scale a sales team if
you're selling a software product or
anything. By the way, if you know that
company will pay us $3 million versus
like, you know, we when we were starting
a firm, we signed up 1800 Flowers. We
have no idea how much we're gonna make
from them. And it turned out like you
know what really made the business work?
Casper the mattress company. It's like
what? Like this stupid m like but it's
like you just don't know and you think
like you get like a big like we got
Walmart didn't really work out that well
in the beginning we get Casper the
mattress company. Oh my god incredible.
workday has the pred it's predictability
in both directions right it's
predictability for the spender of the
money which is the customer but it's
also the predictability for the
management team knowing that you should
spend your time trying to sign up GE and
not sign up a 10person company because
GE is bigger than the 10erson company
whereas it's crazy in internet land
where it's like Stripe might make more
money from a 10erson company than GE and
I guess you you could get to like higher
levels of predictability there but like
when you have outcome based pricing or
consumption based pricing or something.
I mean consumption based pricing is not
bad per se but if you don't know from
the outside in how much you can make
from an account it just becomes
exponentially harder to scale a sales
team a scales a sales and marketing team
because you just as an entrepreneur one
thing I want to go back to sort of dealt
with how you guys are adapting in this
era c can you share more about the the
biggest ways in which that's manifested
for you and you know h how it's made you
you change your business
>> look I think the way that we think about
it is um
We look, we sell collaboration tools
that solve human collaboration problems,
right? In lots of different areas,
service teams,
broad business teams, HR, finance,
software teams, like lots of different
types of teams by different sets of apps
from us, collections and sets of apps.
Fundamentally, they're all collaboration
problems that involve a lot of text. So,
this is really good for us. What are
those people doing is probably the
important part, right? The technology
world often runs to we're going to
reinvent everything and that's the way
of the future. And that generally is
true in the medium to long arc of time.
Our challenge is always we have a lot of
customers that work in today's manner
today's workflows in today's set of apps
and they're not they're very smart. They
want to get to tomorrow but they also
have to move a lot of people. So when
we're building AI features and I can
give examples of any of these um we need
to understand what that technology is,
how it can help us. That's how we think
about it firstly. Secondly, what
fundamental platform componentry do we
need to build for whatever that future
will be because this stuff's
accelerating so fast, right? So that's
how we got to our AI gateway and the
teamwork graph and the enterprise
compliance and controls. You have to
separate that out from the features
you're building for customers in a given
app. Then have to build features for
customers that they use, right? So where
do you put those features? What are
those features? A whole bunch of them
are in existing workflows to help the
customer do that existing workflow
faster, better, higher quality, more
efficiently.
Those tend to be very unexciting from a
magic point of view in terms of what
sells a, you know, a 30-cond animated
GIF on on X, but they're incredibly
exciting from the customer because they
can use them today. Like their existing
way of working just got better. They're
like, "This is amazing." like they rave
about that stuff and in the AI world
where I'm like but that's pretty simple
and it's like but it actually helps them
today in a massive way. I tell people
internally though and you can give an
example in service that's not enough
because you also need to use their
existing workflows with new apps or look
at new workflows and be able to handle
that as well right so we have to do all
of these things so if you look at you
know Jira is a cononical example
you know in the service collection in
our in our uh HR and IT service
management products summarizing a ticket
is something we can do way better than
we ever could because there's a lot of
existing workflows we have in enterprise
maybe a four five six people work a
ticket internally to try to resolve a
problem. The fourth person that shows
up, there are a whole lot of attached
files. There's a lot of conversation.
There's a lot of different things going
on. They would normally have taken 30
minutes to like read it all and
understand what's going on. So then they
can bring their expertise to bear on the
problem. Literally just summarizing that
and it's not a simple stick it into, you
know, an LLM and get back summary. You
have to be very careful about the
context is so powerful for them. But
they haven't changed their workflow on
iota. It's still Alex saying, "Hey,
Eric, can you come help me with this
ticket?" Eric shows up, Eric has to
bootload his brain with all the things.
So, that's like an existing workflow
where we can use LMS just to make that
customer way better. And they love it,
right? They rave about all these types
of features, but they're very simple.
They're usually not agentic. Uh then we
can say, "Cool, but that service
workflow, we need to put agents in at
various spots, right?" And most people
are taking a workflow
and finding, you know what, this step
trips us up a lot. This costs us a lot
of time. Can we make this step faster?
And that's absolutely something that we
have to provide agent frameworks
ourselves. We have a pretty great agent
framework that uses all the team graph
and all the context you have. It's
pretty simple. It's pretty very
affordable. Um or you bring your own
agent framework, right? Most businesses
I think will have three to five large
scale agent platforms running internally
and they say, "Hey, I use agent force
for this or I use Gemini for this."
Great. Bring that agent and we'll pop it
in the workflow here and we'll make that
work, right? We have to be able to do
that. But you're still all in the
existing workflow world. you're just
doing the old task and then doing kind
of a new and efficient task but in the
existing workflow. Then you get people
like what if the service ticket didn't
exist at all, right? So you're
reimagining whole categories of software
to new workflows and we have to help our
customers make it across that gap
because they don't generally have one
service team. They have hundreds, right?
And if they have hundreds of different
service desks running, they might say
these 20 are going to work in this new
way these but they have to manage them
all. So, I guess we're trying to bring
data
in the teamwork graph together with this
and also from a customer-driven lens. I
think that often gets left out here,
right? We're trying to take them 5 years
into the future. It's our job to
actually get them one year and two years
and 5 years into the future
simultaneously, which we we're trying to
do. And the last thing I'd say is we're
investing a lot in design. And I think
that always in any conversation gets
left out because there's a lot of
foundational design to do in how this
works, right? We're seeing the first
elements of this, but if I look at the
mobile era, the first set of apps were
kind of just canonically taking desktop
or web things and sticking them in a
phone. And then we evolved new patterns
of interaction and experience, right?
Not even the visuals. How do we use
these things? What were push
notifications for? They didn't exist at
the start, right? drag to refresh is
like a very obvious simple example
that's a pretty canonical design pattern
that generally it's successful here and
it gets moved across but the whole like
how do I use my mobile and my desktop
together how do I move back and forth we
have so many design challenges to solve
um that actually help people to
understand what's there the average
customer we have the average user they
don't want to understand if if AI
doesn't exist for them that's fine
but they want the outcomes of it right?
They don't need to know all of the
technical detail. It's our job to hide
them and just give them the answer
they're looking for or make a task more
effective or efficient. I feel like in
the technology world sometimes we get so
obsessed by like model quality. You
know, it's it's almost trit now to say
the models are far ahead of the the
actual value they're delivering now that
the underutilized capabilities are so
big. A part of that equation is actually
design and experience, right? How do I
get this? give people a chat box that
can do unlimited power and they're like,
"Uh, tell me a dad joke." Like, it's
like unlimited power, but it does it's
very hard to help them utilize that
power, which is where a huge amount of
our challenge goes in terms of bringing
agents and all the the power of them
into workflows and collaborative loops
and and having humans and agents work
together. I I I love the skuorphic point
on well you know it's first it's like
you had pieces of paper the early web
was just like a web page that's why it's
called a web page it's like eight and a
half by 11 right and then mobile oh
we'll make it a tiny web page and then
it turns out if you don't just go into
the skuorphic world but you just think
from first principles and take advantage
of the power of the device you do all
sorts of other things it's like you know
the the the scroll to refresh right like
the the the pull pull down to refresh
that was a new concept that came for
mobile right so um I was thinking about
this the other day. I don't know. Have
you tried Nano Banana 2?
>> Yes.
>> It's really good. Right. So, uh, one of
my colleagues just said, "Hey, uh, for
an American tourist visiting Japan, make
an infographic about what to do and not
to do." And it's like it oneshots
something that's amazing. How do you
edit that output? Right? And that's
where it's like, you know, it feels very
it's well, you could edit the text, you
could edit the graphics, you could just
oneshot something new or, you know, what
what is the state? I guess this is my
question for you is like what do you
think the state-of-the-art is or should
be? And how have you been thinking about
this just because you mentioned design
for editing the output of the AI output,
>> right? Because they're they're like the
they're the classic. It's like, oh, I'll
use a guey and click here and change
that. But it feels like that's very
skumorphic.
>> I would I would I would zoom out two
levels from that to answer that question
because it's a great question. First is
customer trust is really hard in these
areas, right? When you go talk to users,
you sit down, you do research with them,
you sit, you ask them questions, you ask
the five W's, they're very scared of AI,
not because of its power, because it
does stuff and they're like, "Hey, how
do I know that was right and what did it
do?" Right? It's like the idea that oh
don't worry my AI bots's gone and sent
15 emails and managed your inbox your
inbox is empty and you're like okay did
it I don't trust it yet like so I have a
trust question on generally AI doing
things really quickly to gain trust it
has to come back to you and say here's
what I'm about to do are you sure you
want me to do this without being
annoying that like just effing go and do
it so like that that's a whole design
question how often does it how do you
build trust with any of these tools the
second is does it have enough data,
right? So much of AI is oneshotting
things. Sit on X, you'll see a thousand
like, hey, this is the magical prompt
incarnation Harry Potter spell that does
this like runs you a oneperson billion
dollar business. Just put this prompt in
and paste it. And like that's like kind
of ridiculous because the reality is you
also have a lot of iteration on the data
side, right? oneshotting things is
really useful, but you often need to go
back and edit the output and the input,
right? I'm not very good. I've used this
example for a while where you say, "Hey,
go write me an essay for my homework."
It'll spit out an essay and you're like,
"Wait, no, no, it's a history class."
They're like, "Oh, okay. Well, let's
deliver an essay." And like you're
actually changing the input. And
somewhat this is chat like iterations.
But if you've ever tried to do that
image editing with chat iterations, it's
super frustrating where it's like, oh
no, you changed the thing I didn't want
you to change and you come back, you're
like, so like there's an input design
and experience problem. Part of that is
how do I have the right amount of
context and then there's an output and
iteration problems. Our teamwork graph
can access largely all of your
organizational knowledge. It's insanely
accurate. It's got great search. It's
got amazing relevance. And you're like,
"Sweet. I have full organizational
memory." Now, the teamwork graph knows
that I used to write code in 2002.
And it knows that because it has this
insane memory. And I'm like, it's
actually not useful. Don't use that to
answer any query I give you other than
one thing. Mike used to be a developer.
Maybe a bad one, right? It wouldn't get
hired nowadays anywhere. But maybe that
helps in explaining something to me in a
way that, oh, you have a computer
science degree. I can help explain it to
you in this way, but I don't want to
know all that information. Why is that
an input challenge? You kind of see all
these boxes at the moment where it's
like search the web, don't search the
web, search my organization, don't
search my organ, like you're asking the
user make all these choices they don't
quite understand. That's not in a design
flow, right? Where it says, hey, this
question, I suspect you want me to do
this and that. Is that correct? You see
that a little bit in deep research, but
it's a bit frustrating. And it leads to
this whole like, man, I've got 17
different agents running off and doing
stuff. And I'm like, it's like the the
problem of having a lot of interns where
like the problem with having 50 interns
is you get a lot of work done. The
problem with having 50 interns is they
ask you 50 questions a minute and you're
like, all you're doing is answering
questions for interns. Um, so there's an
input problem of experience that you
really need to solve. Then you get to
the iteration problem which in a
corporation is much more difficult right
because um we gave this great example of
you know brainstorming where it's not
usually one person brainstorming so in
our in our whiteboard and confluence you
can bring in agents and say hey I want
to brainstorm about this topic they are
really good at going off and getting all
the information from your organizational
knowledge to the teamwork graph and
coming back with a really good
brainstorm and we get better and better
at drawing it and putting the cards in
the right places and everything else. If
you just take that randomly and say go,
you lose human input and trust. So,
actually, usually what happens then is
we've got a bunch of data. We're going
to have a meeting. We're going to get
people together. We're going to go and
say what do we all think? Add our
intuition that the the the brain matter.
Which of these are useful or not useful?
And then that information has to go back
into some other agentic loop to say,
cool. Now, we've kind of voted although
the voting is like the output of a of a
human process.
then you're going to go and do something
and then we're going to work out what to
do and did we do it correctly and and
all these things. It's as you said it's
very non-deterministic in the quality of
output but it requires I think this
human agent loop right and and getting
that right is a design problem too many
loops it's frustrating not enough loops
you lose trust and it just it just
happens and so we see that we just
shipped you know agents in Jira in a lot
of ways so you can like assign work to
an agent and it goes off and does stuff
and when we test it with people they're
like what's it doing like do you want to
give us a thousand steps they're like
why are you telling me all this crap?
I'm like wait cuz you said you didn't
know what it was doing and so there are
lots of design challenges with just
bringing them into workflows and back to
the business processes
like the I don't know the security team
is involved in a lot of places the
accounting team the finance team there's
lots of places like even in sales
finance usually has sign off on a deal
or someone in finance does how do you do
that and make that workflow better where
you're just assigning to agents you need
to be very careful about the experience
how does it come back? When does it come
back? Is it frustrating? Does it come
back in a new way? Can I interrogate
what it's doing right now? Like our
agent uh first or third party agents
we're running in Jura. If they're off
doing a task, you can chat to them while
they're doing the task and say, "What
are you doing?" Which helps you build
trust in the short term, we believe, but
in the long term, if you trust it, this
particular agent doing this task, man,
it's got to write the last 20 times. The
odds are right. It's it's good. I'm just
going to ignore it. These are all, I
would argue, a fundamental foundational
design and experience problem. They're
not a technology problem, right? They're
getting millions of people who use our
apps every day to trust this and the
gains they get and removing the blank
box. I can do unlimited things for you,
which just leads to paralysis. I think
for for most people,
>> it's it's it's an open question, right?
It's like because it's clearly like it's
not the yesterday version of like click
your mouse here and it's not the today
version of just do a new prompt. It's
like both. It's like the it's it
actually is like a as long as humans are
involved in some way, shape or form,
which I firmly believe they will be
because these tools serve humans. You
need to be able to get your head into
the model um both from a trust
perspective and from an iteration
perspective. And it's it's a design
problem. And I don't think any any
nobody's quite nailed it yet or I don't
know maybe they have but it feels like
we're at the very very beginning of this
process of coming up with a better
design for modulating not even modulated
but just kind of editing the the
oneshots which impressive as they are
today. It's just like that's not going
to be I I just don't believe it's just
like ah Harry Potter spell incantation.
I'm going to steal that phrase. That's a
good one. Uh I think I think one thing
one interesting example is just writing
documents
is something we all do so naturally and
there is a huge design challenge and
experience challenge which I can
describe with AI document writing but
secondly there's also a huge like people
learning challenge so like we sometimes
forget pretty much people in technology
know what a prompt is and what it does
and what the LM's doing in the
background. You go to people in the
broad business world, they don't have
time to learn all this. They kind of
probably know what CHBT is. They don't
quite know how it's working. And the
reason it's a design challenge of
document creation is um we have a whole
set of features which we call create
with Rovo, which instead of writing a
document by giving you a blank page and
just starting to write. Okay, I got a
heading, I put some text in, I put
another heading, I put some text in, I
put a table, etc., right? Is we've all
been trained for decades in knowledge
worker to write a document that way.
With create with rovo, you can literally
say start with a prompt, right? Hey, I
want a document that roughly does this
or looks like this shape. Give me a
template and I'll spit out a template.
You can say, hey, I want a document. Can
you go off and research this, that, and
the other? And bring it back. But most
of those documents, the research is
actually a small category of tasks. It's
like, help me get started with my
document in some way. Teaching users
that they should start that way is
really, really hard. Once they're
running though, they now have two panes,
right? They have
75% of the screen is the document itself
and 25% is a chat window. Think of
Microsoft Word without a toolbar but
with chat only. Now I can type text in.
I can edit it. I can change it. And you
need to say, "Hey, you should be totally
comfortable change everything on the
left." But you can do operations on the
right like, "Hey, I want you to add a
new section that goes and researches
this other stuff and put it after like
the summary." And it'll go and do that.
trying to watch power users are like
this is amazing and they're like moving
back and forth and they're getting the
whole paradigm and they're like doing
things and they can write commands like
you know what make every heading blue
which you can't do in Word and they're
like bang it's all blue and they're like
this is cool I can kind of give it
commands across the document and I can
go get more information and I can like
hey can you resummize it quicker or man
how do you think they can ask questions
like how do you think the board is going
to read this document as a board member
is it simple enough and it'll give you
information in chat that you may say
cool go action out or don't. It's a
completely different paradigm to writing
a simple document which is just at the
end of the day you know headings and and
and bullets and text and stuff and when
you watch power users they love it.
Normal people like regular business
users who are very smart they're like
so I just type on the left that's all I
do. I'm like well yes it's it's a whole
paradigm shift. I suspect as we get more
of these tools and experiences just like
mobile
two years from now and five years from
now that'll be very standard. They'll
all say, "Yeah, I get how to do this."
Right? Maybe the first time someone
looked at Excel, they were like, "Wait,
where do I type the paragraphs or
something and you're like, "Oh, no." You
have to think differently about it. Now
it's just like, "Oh, yeah, I get Excel.
I know how it works." Um, that's the
experience challenge we have, I think,
to take all this power and put it into
something as simple as writing a
document with all my organizational
knowledge. Like, okay, I get the maths
of why that's possible, but now help me
actually help people do it. Massive
amount of challenge there. Massive
amount of excitement, right? It's a when
they get it, they're like, "This thing
is amazing." Um, but it's going to take
us a lot of time to get get the
experiences correct for people to learn.
>> That's a great place to wrap. Um, Mike,
thank you so much for for coming on the
podcast. It's been an excellent
discussion.
>> Yeah, no worries, guys. Hope it was
>> It was great meeting you, Mike.